GW 3.6.1 Release Note (#658)
conduktor/conduktor-docs: src/pages/changelog/Gateway-3.6.1.md

---
date: 2025-03-05
title: Hotfix for Gateway 3.6.1
description: docker pull conduktor/conduktor-gateway:3.6.1
solutions: gateway
tags: fix
---

*Release date: {frontMatter.date.toISOString().slice(0, 10)}*

### New Features

- New metric `gateway.apiKeys.throttle_ms` : The throttling time in Kafka responses per apiKey in milliseconds

> - Metric `gateway.apiKeys.latency.request_response` : The latency to process a request and generate a response for each ApiKey

Reviewer: 1. It's a change to an existing metric not a new one. How about I make it 'Modified the existing metric ...'
2. Interestingly, i just lifted the text from the environment variable description in the code. I'm inclined to lift your change back to the code description. thanks!

> - Metric `gateway.apiKeys.latency.request_response` : The latency to process a request and generate a response for each ApiKey

Reviewer: cool. pushed a version of that change.

>   - Updated to track latency for all verbs (eg CONNECTION) not just FETCH/PRODUCE

Reviewer: Good point, I've moved updated to the root bullet. lets discuss further in that thread if any more concerns https://github.com/conduktor/conduktor-docs/pull/658#discussion_r1983217967

resolving this thread.

### Feature Changes

> - Limit Commit Offset Plugin

Reviewer: That's what it's called!!!! I've wrapped it in back tics and updated text to say is an update. have a look.

  - accuracy of rate limiting has been improved
  - `action`/`throttleTimeInMs` properties did not work correctly and are now ignored
- Cluster ACLs
  - When creating cluster ACLs using a programmatic API, only allow `kafka-cluster` for the name part of the resource. This makes  Gateway consistent with Kafka. (Previously you could create an ACL on any cluster name but it would be re-written to `*`)

### Fixes

- Fixed a problem with the Create Topic Policy plugin which would not apply overrides to default configurations from the underlying Kafka setup.
- Fixed a problem with `CreateTopics ACLs` in Gateway which previously also required the `Create cluster` permission enabled.

> - Addressed a problem with Non Delegated SASL/PLAIN token credentials, where Gateway would continue to work after service account has been deleted. To enable this feature set the environment variable `GATEWAY_USER_POOL_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_REQUIRED` to `true` (it currently defaults to `false`).

Reviewer: gonna go with romain's complete rewrite. but thanks.

---
date: 2025-03-05
title: Hotfix for Gateway 3.6.1
description: docker pull conduktor/conduktor-gateway:3.6.1
solutions: gateway
tags: fix
---

*Release date: {frontMatter.date.toISOString().slice(0, 10)}*

### New Features

- New metric `gateway.apiKeys.throttle_ms` : The throttling time in Kafka responses per apiKey in milliseconds
- Metric `gateway.apiKeys.latency.request_response` : The latency to process a request and generate a response for each ApiKey
  - Updated to track latency for all verbs (eg CONNECTION) not just FETCH/PRODUCE

### Feature Changes

- Limit Commit Offset Plugin
  - accuracy of rate limiting has been improved
  - `action`/`throttleTimeInMs` properties did not work correctly and are now ignored
- Cluster ACLs

>   - Only allow `kafka-cluster` as cluster name (this makes Gateway consistent with Kafka)
>   - Previously you could create an ACL on any cluster name but it would be re-written to ???

Reviewer 2: I tried to rephrase a bit to make it more understandable. WDYT?
```suggestion
  - When creating cluster ACLs using a programmatic API, only allow `kafka-cluster` for the name part of the resource. This makes  Gateway consistent with Kafka. (Previously you could create an ACL on any cluster name but it would be re-written to `*`)
```

Reviewer: oh nice. thanks for doing that. helping me to understand the change as well!

### Fixes

- Fixed a problem with the Create Topic Policy plugin which would not apply overrides to default configurations from the underlying Kafka setup.
- Fixed a problem with `CreateTopics ACLs` in Gateway which previously also required the `Create cluster` permission enabled.
- Addressed a problem with Non Delegated SASL/PLAIN token credentials, where Gateway would continue to work after service account has been deleted. To enable this feature set the environment variable `GATEWAY_USER_POOL_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_REQUIRED` to `true` (it currently defaults to `false`).
- Fixed a problem in the Observability Plugin where it failed to apply configuration changes if optional flush interval was not set.
- Fixed a problem in `AddPartitionsToTxnRequest` where ACLs on transactionIds in new location were not being checked when Kafka API version was >= 4.
- Fixed inconsistencies with Kafka for `InitProducerIdRequest` on un-authorised requests 

>   - now fails with `TRANSACTIONAL_ID_AUTHORIZATION_FAILED` instead of `TRANSACTIONAL_ID_AUTHORIZATION_FAILED` when `transactionalId` is non-null

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this sentence (or remove the "instead of part" if we want to be precise)

*Release date: {frontMatter.date.toISOString().slice(0, 10)}*

### New Features

- New metric `gateway.apiKeys.throttle_ms` : The throttling time in Kafka responses per apiKey in milliseconds
- Metric `gateway.apiKeys.latency.request_response` : The latency to process a request and generate a response for each ApiKey
  - Updated to track latency for all verbs (eg CONNECTION) not just FETCH/PRODUCE

### Feature Changes

- Limit Commit Offset Plugin
  - accuracy of rate limiting has been improved

>   - `action`/`throttleTimeInMs` properties did not work correctly and are now ignored

Reviewer: @99-not-out suggested this should be removed as we don't want to track plugin changes unless partner requested

- Cluster ACLs
  - Only allow `kafka-cluster` as cluster name (this makes Gateway consistent with Kafka)

>   - Previously you could create an ACL on any cluster name but it would be re-written to ???

Reviewer: @trobert did my best but my kafka foo wasn't strong enough. perhaps you can explain in the morning and we can decide if it is even important enough to go in release notes.
